<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  - Copyright (C) 2006-2011 Schlichtherle IT Services
  -
  - All rights reserved. This program and the accompanying materials
  - are made available under the terms of the Eclipse Public License v1.0
  - which accompanies this distribution, and is available at
  - http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html
  -->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>6.3 Release Notes</title>
        <meta name="Author" content="Christian Schlichtherle"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="content">
            <h1>Release Notes for TrueZIP 6.3</h1>
            <p class="subtitle">(October 6<sup>th</sup>, 2006)</p>
            <h2>Contents</h2>
            <ol>
                <li><a href="#introduction">Introduction</a></li>
                <li><a href="#updates">List of Updates (Change Log)</a></li>
            </ol>
            <h2><a name="introduction">Introduction</a></h2>
            <p>This is a minor feature release which adds some new parameters to make it
            easier to update/unmount archive files safely in multithreaded environments.</p>
            <table id="legend">
                <thead>
                    <tr>
                        <th colspan="2">Legend</th>
                    </tr>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <tr>
                        <th>New</th>
                        <td>Introduces a new feature.</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <th>Fixed</th>
                        <td>Introduces a bug fix of an existing feature.</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <th>Enhanced</th>
                        <td>
                            Introduces the enhancement of an existing feature.
                            This update is fully backwards compatible.
                        </td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <th>Changed</th>
                        <td>
                            Introduces the change of an existing feature.
                            This update may cause
                            <a href="releases.html#compatibility">
                                backwards incompatibilities
                            </a>.
                        </td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <th>Deprecated</th>
                        <td>Introduces the deprecation of an existing feature.</td>
                    </tr>
                </tbody>
            </table>
            <h2><a name="updates">List of Updates (Change Log)</a></h2>
            <p>
                Following is an overview of all updates in this release
                which affect the public API.
                Please note that internal refactorings are not listed.
                For a full list of updates, please refer to the CVS repository
                and diff to the tag <code>TrueZIP-6_2_1</code>.
            </p>
            <ol>
                <li><b>New:</b> The methods de.schlichtherle.io.File.<a href="apidocs/de/schlichtherle/io/File.html#update">update</a>/<a href="apidocs/de/schlichtherle/io/File.html#umount">umount</a>(...)
                    provide new parameters which make it easier to update archives safely in
                    multithreaded environments: You can now update individual archive files only
                    and/or wait until all other threads have closed their archive entry streams.
                    Furthermore, you can now specify the forced closing of entry streams
                    separately for input and output streams. For more information, please refer to
                the Javadoc.</li>
                <li><b>Fixed:</b> Ghost directories (directories for which there is no
                    information present in an archive, but for which one or more children exist) were written to
                the archive on update.</li>
                <li><b>Fixed:</b> A <code>ClassCastException</code> was thrown when updating
                an archive on some non-Sun provided J2SE APIs.</li>
                <li><b>Fixed:</b> The prologue length for an empty ZIP file was set to
                    Long.MAX_VALUE. This caused the empty ZIP file to be prepended to any update
                    of the ZIP file, which didn't negatively affect ZIP file format compatibility
                but unnecessarily bloated the updated ZIP file by 22 bytes on each update.</li>
                <li>
                    <b>Fixed &amp; Enhanced:</b> Updated the Javadoc of some classes.
                </li>
            </ol>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>